RHELAI-1056: Document formats of input and output files (#382)
python-wheel-build/fromager: docs/files.md

# Input and Output Files

## constraints.txt

> The `constraints.txt` is the input file used to specify the exact version constraints of python packages that are needed to build a wheel. This file is similar to `requirements.txt` but instead of listing packages that must be installed, it sets constraints on versions of packages, ensuring that certain versions are either used or avoided during the wheel building process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `constraints.txt` is the input file used to control the resolution of python packages that are needed to build a wheel. This file is similar to `requirements.txt` but instead of listing packages that must be installed, it sets constraints on versions of packages, ensuring that certain versions are either used or avoided during the wheel building process.
```

We do tend to use it to set specific versions, but it's also possible to just use `!=` rules to avoid packages.

Author: Okay, changed it!

Each line in the `constraints.txt` file should contain the name of a package followed by a version specifier. The version specifier can be one of the following:

* `==`: Specifies an exact version of the package.
* `<`, `<=`, `>`, `>=`: Specifies a version range.

> * `!=`: Excludes a specific version

Reviewer: We could point to the upstream documentation for the syntax, too.

Author: Umm, which upstream documentation? The customization.md or README.md or general fromager documentation?

Reviewer: That file format is described as part of the python packaging standards or pip documentation, I'm not sure which. Have a look through https://www.pypa.io/en/latest/specifications/ and look for the official pip docs to find a good reference.

Author: Okay, done!

### Example build-order.json

The following example shows `build-order.json` file for the top-level dependency `wheel`

```json
[
  {
    "type": "build-system",
    "req": "flit_core<4,>=3.8",
    "constraint": "",
    "dist": "flit-core",
    "version": "3.9.0",
    "prebuilt": false,
    "source_url": "https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/c4/e6/c1ac50fe3eebb38a155155711e6e864e254ce4b6e17fe2429b4c4d5b9e80/flit_core-3.9.0.tar.gz#sha256=72ad266176c4a3fcfab5f2930d76896059851240570ce9a98733b658cb786eba",
    "source_url_type": "sdist"
  },
  {
    "type": "toplevel",
    "req": "wheel",
    "constraint": "",
    "dist": "wheel",
    "version": "0.44.0",
    "prebuilt": false,
    "source_url": "https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/b7/a0/95e9e962c5fd9da11c1e28aa4c0d8210ab277b1ada951d2aee336b505813/wheel-0.44.0.tar.gz#sha256=a29c3f2817e95ab89aa4660681ad547c0e9547f20e75b0562fe7723c9a2a9d49",
    "source_url_type": "sdist"
  }
]
```

## graph.json

> The `graph.json` is an output file that contains all the paths fromager can take to resolve a dependency during building the wheel.

Reviewer: The graph represents all of the dependencies encountered during a build of a wheel collection ("collection" is a new term we're introducing). It shows the parent/child relationships of all dependencies, including the type of dependency.

The format is a mapping from resolved versions expressed as a requirement specification (package==version) to a mapping with properties of the package and the list of dependencies of that package.

Author: Okay, added it!

### Example graph.json

The following example shows `graph.json` file for the top-level dependency `wheel`

```json
{
  "": {
    "download_url": "",
    "version": "0",
    "canonicalized_name": "",

>     "edges": [

Reviewer: @shubhbapna I didn't catch this earlier. Maybe instead of "edges" we want to say "dependencies" here?
